first draft of learning standards (#1)
ben-spector-cc/intermediate-react-jest: lesson/outline/learning-standards.md

## Example: What is Jest?

### Learning Standard Text

> From the [documentation](https://jestjs.io/), "Jest is a JavaScript testing framework designed to ensure correctness of any JavaScript codebase. It allows you to write tests with an approachable, familiar and feature-rich API that gives you results quickly."

Reviewer: LMK: "From Jest's documentation"?

Author: Yep, I made the change.

### Tags

JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

Sources:
* https://jestjs.io/

<hr>

## Installing Jest

### Learning Standard Text

> If you are using `create-react-app` to initialize your React project, Jest will already be included. 

Reviewer: ToDo: Learning Standards tend to avoid the use of "you" and "we" and opt for more passive voice. 

Suggestion:
Jest will be included by default when initializing a React app using `create-react-app`.

Author: Done.

To manually install Jest with `npm`, use the following command:

```sh
npm install --save-dev jest
```

> Though not required, the `--save-dev` flag will add this library as a development dependency rather than a production dependency. You can see this in the `package.json` file:

Reviewer: Same note here about "you"

Suggestion: "This dependency is seen..."

Reviewer: For files, use bolding instead of backticks **package.json**

Reviewer: welp, it just rendered the markdown for me, but you get the point :D

Author: Done.

```js
"devDependencies": {
  "jest": "^26.6.3"
},
```

### Tags

JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

Sources:
* https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started

<hr>

## Running Jest Tests

### Learning Standard Text

> To run a test using Jest, first add the following to your `package.json` file:

Reviewer: I'll stop making notes about the pronouns after this one :) 

"To run a test using Jest, \*\*package.json\*\* must be configured to have the `"script"`'s `"test"` set as `"jest"`.

Author: Done.

Author: Done.

```js
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jest"
  }
}
```

Then, you can run `npm test` from your terminal. 

> Jest will automatically look for files that have the `.test.js` or `.spec.js` suffix (as well as `.js` files in a `__test__` directory).

Reviewer: Same note about file names and extensions using bold. I'll also stop after this :)

Author: Done.

### Tags

JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

Sources:
* https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started

<hr>

## The `test()` function

### Learning Standard Text

> Every Jest test begins with the `test()` function, which accepts two arguments:

Reviewer 2: Should we call out that some codebases use `it` instead? https://jestjs.io/docs/api#testname-fn-timeout

1. A string describing the functionality being tested
2. A callback function containing the testing logic to execute

> Each `test()` function call will produce a separate line in the testing report. In order for a given test to pass, the test must run without throwing errors or containing failed `expect()` assertions.

Reviewer: Of the learning standards that I've read so far, this one stands out as following what I've seen as "best practices" :) I think it can be used as a model for other LS.
+ Avoids use of (you/we) pronouns, opts for passive voice
+ Includes mention of the lang/framework/lib near the beginning
+ Uses MD effectively 
+ Provides a general sense of what the concept 
+ Keeps the scope localized to the concept 

I went digging around for some guidelines and found this old doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d6IpTioot988A1G_NaFT11LMaLIrQWtPAYYN9oPfqcI/edit

Author: Thanks!

### Tags

JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

For example, consider this test:

```js
// myTest.test.js

> test('test 1: a passing test', () => {

Reviewer: LMK: For `test()`'s first argument, are there best practices? Or general convention? Like capitalizing the first word, like a sentence? all lower case?

Author: Not that I'm aware of. @JohnPhamous?

Reviewer 2: Convention is set by the codebase. For these examples having `test: 1`/`test: 2` is redundant. The string should describe what the test is testing (at a high level, not specific implementation details).

Author: Right. For these examples I wanted to just show the relationship of the first `test()` argument to the output in the terminal while making it clear which test would pass/fail

  // a passing test
});

test('test 2: a failing test', () => {
  // a failing test
});
```

Running `npm test` for the **myTest.test.js** file will produce the following output:

```sh
FAIL  myTest.test.js
✓ test 1: a passing test
✕ test 2: a failing test
```

Sources:
* https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started

<hr>

## The `expect()` function and matchers

### Learning Standard Text

The Jest library provides the `expect()` function to validate various aspects of your code. Each call to `expect()` is typically appended by a matcher method like so:

> ```js

Reviewer: From the [LS template sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1V5EDbiUR47d9JqNl19jpPa-TdimGk7rz5dq14qUT4pY/edit?usp=drive_web&ouid=112016060766388256937), there's a comment that mentions this field won't support full code snippets

expect(expressionToValidate).matcherMethod(expectedValue)
```

The value passed to `expect()` should be an expression that you wish to validate while the matcher appended to `expect()` determines how that expression will be validated. 

> There are numerous matcher methods, each with their own inputs, and they can be found in the [Jest documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect).

Reviewer: LMK: Haven't really put much thought into using "their" but to avoid this gray area entirely, I would suggest:

"Jest Documentation contains a list of match methods outlining input types and outcomes."

Author: I don't think this is an issue since I'm not referring to the learner but instead the topic at hand. That being said, I can use your suggestion.

### Tags

JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

This example demonstrates a number of common matchers that each result in a passing test.

```js
test('basic matchers with expect', () => {
  // .toBe uses `===` to determine equality
  expect('Hello' + 'World').toBe('HelloWorld');
  
  // .toEqual should be used to check for deep equality of objects
  expect({a: 1, b: [1,2,3]}).toEqual({a: 1, b: [1,2,3]});
  
  // the .not property can be prepended to any matcher method
  expect('').not.toHaveLength(1);
  expect(undefined).not.toBeDefined();

  // Some other useful matchers
  expect(5 > 2).toBeTruthy();
  expect(['lions', 'tigers', 'bears']).toContain('tigers');

> })

Reviewer: missing `;` ?

```

Sources:
* https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started

<hr>

## False Positives in Jest with Asynchronous Code

### Learning Standard Text

Jest will automatically pass a test that it perceives to have no `expect()` assertions or errors. As a result, false positives are likely to occur when naively testing code with asynchronous functionality.

> In this example, you would expect the assertion to fail. However, because the assertion is executed on a delay, the test will finish and pass before the assertion is ever made. 

Reviewer: ToDo: Since the text area won't support code snippets, this example (and accompanying text) would be better suited for the notes section.

Author: Should I still move this given that we learned LS can support code snippets?

Author: Nevermind, I moved it anyway since I think the LS can stand on its own without the example.

```js
const asyncGreeting = callback => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    const data = 'Hello';
    callback(data);
  }, 1000);
}

test('a false positive test', () => {
  asyncGreeting(data => {
    expect(data).toBe('Goodbye'); // this should fail but...
  });

  // ...Jest doesn't see the expect() in time so it passes!
});
```

> We need to use additional syntax to ensure that Jest waits for asynchronous assertions to be made before marking a test as complete. There are two asynchronous patterns that Jest supports, each with their own syntax for testing:

Reviewer: Just to note, this portion of the LS still seems apt for the text area.

JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

In this example, `asyncGreeting()` is the function that we want to test. We put the assertions inside the callback passed to `asyncGreeting()` and we make sure to call `done()` after the `expect()` assertion is made. 

We do this in a `try` block because if the `expect()` assertion fails, it will throw an error preventing  the `done()` function from being called and thus causing the test to fail on a timeout. The result of this is that the output log will show a timeout error rather than the error thrown by the `expect()`. So, we use a `catch` block and pass the `error` to `done()` which will then display the thrown error in the output log.

```js
function asyncGreeting(callback) {
  setTimeout(()=> {
    data = 'Hello';
    callback(data);
  }, 1000)
}

test('async callbacks test', done => {
  asyncGreeting(data => {
    try {
      expect(data).toBe('Goodbye');
      done();
    } catch (error) {
      done(error);
    }
  });
});
```

Sources:
* https://www.pluralsight.com/guides/test-asynchronous-code-jest
* https://jestjs.io/docs/asynchronous

<hr>

## Testing Async Code - Promises

### Learning Standard Test

> When testing asynchronous code that uses a Promise to deliver a response, the `.resolves` and `.rejects` matchers may be used. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When testing asynchronous code that returns a Promise, the `.resolves` and `.rejects` matchers may be used. 
```

Example: 

```js
function makeRequest(isSuccessful) {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    isSuccessful ? resolve("Hurray!") : reject ("Boo");
  })
}

// Using async/await
test('the Promise should resolve', async () => {
  await expect(makeRequest(true)).resolves.toBe('Hurray!');
});

test('the Promise should be rejected', async () => {
  await expect(makeRequest(false)).rejects.toBe('Boo');
});

// Returning the Promise
test('the Promise should resolve', () => {
  return expect(makeRequest(true)).resolves.toBe('Hurray!');
});

test('the Promise should be rejected', () => {
  return expect(makeRequest(false)).rejects.toBe('Boo');
});
```

Sources:
* https://www.pluralsight.com/guides/test-asynchronous-code-jest
* https://jestjs.io/docs/asynchronous

<hr>

## Mocking functions with `jest.fn()`

### Learning Standard Text

The Jest library provides the `jest.fn()` function for creating a "mock" function. 
* An optional implementation function may be passed to `jest.fn()` to define the mock function's behavior and return value. 
* The mock function's behavior may be further specified using various methods provided to the mock function such as `.mockReturnValueOnce()`.

> * If no implementation function is provided, the mock function simply returns `undefined`. 

Reviewer: Small nit: could omit "simply"

* The mock function's usage (how it was called, what it returned, etc...) may be validated using the the [`expect()` API](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect).

### Tags
JavaScript, Testing, Jest

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

This example demonstrates how a mocked function may be used within a test to confirm the behavior of a higher-order function `executeCallback()`.

```js
// The function to test. It should call the callback function 3 times with the provided arguments.
function executeCallbackThrice(fn, ...args) {
  fn(...args);
  fn(...args);
  fn(...args);
}

test('mocking a callback function', () => {
  // Define the mock function with an implementation.
  const myMock = jest.fn(value => 'Hello ' + value);

  // Pass myMock to executeCallback()

>   executeCallback(myMock, 'World');

Reviewer: executeCallbackThrice?

Author: Ah yes. good catch

  // Make sure the the mocked function was called properly.
  expect(myMock).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(3);
  expect(myMock).toHaveBeenCalledWith('World');
  expect(myMock).toHaveReturnedWith('Hello World');

  // Set the next call to myMock() to return 'foobar'
  myMock.mockReturnValueOnce('foobar');
  
  // pass myMock to executeCallback()
  executeCallback(myMock, 'Codecademy');

  expect(myMock).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(6);

  // Check each individual call's return value (indexing starts at 1)
  expect(myMock).toHaveNthReturnedWith(4, 'foobar');
  expect(myMock).toHaveNthReturnedWith(5, 'Hello Codecademy');
  expect(myMock).toHaveNthReturnedWith(6, 'Hello Codecademy');

  // Reset all call data
  myMock.mockClear();

>   expect(myMock).not.toHaveBeenCalled();

Reviewer 2: Are we going to cover `beforeEach`/`afterEach`? Usually this setup/teardown logic happens there.

Author: I wasn't planning to. I'll just remove this from the example.
